=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Contenticious - build web sites from markdown files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Generate config file, directories, example pages and the webapp.pl script:

    $ contenticious init
    generating contenticious boilerplate...
    ...
    done.

Serve markdown files from pages directory (live updated):

    $ ./webapp.pl daemon
    ...
    Server available at http://127.0.0.1:3000.

Generate static files ready for upload (dumped to the dump directory)

    $ ./webapp.pl dump
    dumping everything to /Users/memowe/code/contenticious/dump ...
    ...
    done!

These examples show basic usage. Contenticious is highly customizable, but
you may want to start with this basic commands to see what's happening.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Contenticious is a very simple way to build a nice little website from your
content (file-system based).

You just write L<Markdown|Text::Markdown> files in a directory structure and
check the generated HTML live in your browser. The presentation is highly
customizable on many levels, but I think the default is readable and rather
pretty.

Since Contenticious is a Mojolicious web app, it can "be" a web server for
your content, but you can dump everything to static files with a single
command and upload it to your favourite web hoster.

It's also possible to mount Contenticious in your Mojolicious web app.

=head2 How to start

Change to an empty directory and type C<contenticious help> in your termina.
You'll see a short description of the C<contenticious> command. Let's start
with

    $ contenticious init

which will generate some files and directories:

=over 4

=item config - a simple config file with Perl syntax.

=item webapp.pl - the web app script which will serve or dump your content

=item pages - a directory (structure) in which you'll write Markdown files

=item public - a directory with files that will be served directly

=back

Now start the server:

    $ ./webapp.pl daemon
    ...
    Server available at http://127.0.0.1:3000.

If you point your web browser to that address, you should see some example
pages served directly (and updated live) from the pages directory. Feel free
to edit that content and watch what happens in your browser.

=head2 On directory and file names

Your directory and file names become url path parts. You may want to add
numbers to the directory and file names to get the navigation items in the
right order. The numbers will never be seen outside.

To define content for a directory itself you can provide an C<index.md> file.

    file system                     urls
    -------------------------------------------------------
    pages
      |-- 017_c.md                  /c.html
      |-- 018_perl
      |    |-- index.md             /perl.html
      |    |-- 01_introduction.md   /perl/introduction.html
      |    '-- 42_the_cpan.md       /perl/the_cpan.html
      '-- 072_brainfuck             /brainfuck.html
           |--- 17_turing.md        /brainfuck/turing.html
           '--- 69_wtf.md           /brainfuck/wtf.html

If you don't provide an C<index.md> file for a directory, contenticious will
render a list page for you. See this table for better illustration. In this
case, C<brainfuck.html> will be an auto-generated listing of the two
sub pages, turing and wtf.

Later you will be informed how to customize the contenticious templates.
You can adjust the listing by editing the template C<list.html.ep>.

B<Note>: it's impossible to have a directory and a file with the same path
name, but I'm pretty sure you don't really need that. Instead use the
C<index.md> mechanism from above.

=head2 More about content

Contenticious needs some meta informations about your content files, but it
works very hard to guess if you don't provide it. Meta information is
provided in the first few lines of your markdown documents and looks like this

    title: The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
    navi_name: The CPAN

    It's huge, but your mom could eat it
    ====================================

    **CPAN, the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network**,
    is an archive of over 100,000 modules of software
    written in Perl, as well as documentation for it. ...

The I<title> will show up in the C<title> HTML element of the pages, which will
be rendered in the window title bar in most browsers. If no I<title> line is
provided, contenticious will try to extract the first C<H1> headline of the
document's body, which is the mom-line in this case. If there's no C<H1>
headline, contenticious will use the file's path.

The second meta information is I<navi_name> which will be used to generate
the site navigation. If no I<navi_name> is provided, contenticious will use
the file's path.

Sometimes you'll need static content like images, sound files or PDF documents.
No problem, just place them in the public directory and they will be served
by contenticious under their own name. After you created the basic pages
directory with C<contenticious>, there's only one static file in public:
the default stylesheet.

=head2 Customize

To change contenticious' presentation and behaviour, please look at the
configuration file I<config> first. It looks like this:

    {
        pages_dir   => app->home->rel_dir('pages'),
        dump_dir    => app->home->rel_dir('dump'),
        name        => 'Shagadelic',
        copyright   => 'Zaphod Beeblebrox',
        cached      => 0,
    }

As you can see, it is a Perl data structure and you can access the C<app>
shortcut for advanced hacking. I think, the most names are rather
self-documenting, except C<cached>. When set to a true value, contenticious
will hold the document structure in memory to serve it faster. It's
deactivated by default for development. Otherwise you would have to restart
the server every time you want to view the latest version.

To change the design of contenticious' pages, edit the I<styles.css> file in
the I<public> directory. Since the default HTML is very clean you should be
able to change a lot with css changes.

If that's still not enough, use the following command to extract all templates
to a newly created I<templates> directory:

    $ ./webapp.pl inflate

Then you can change the generated HTML with Mojolicious' flexible
L<ep template syntax|Mojo::Template>.

=head2 Deploy

You can find a lot of information about the deployment of Mojolicious apps in
its L<wiki|https://github.com/kraih/mojo/wiki>. In most cases you want to set
the C<chached> option to a true value in contenticious' config file to
increase performance.

If you plan to deploy your content with Mojolicious' built-in production server
Hypnotoad, your contenticious config file is the right place to configure
it as well:

    {
        ...
        cached      => 0,
        hypnotoad   => {
            listen  => ['http://*:3000'],
            workers => 10,
            proxy   => 1,
        },
    }

But if you don't expect your content to be updated very often, just let
Contenticious generate static HTML and CSS files for you:

    $ ./webapp.pl dump

It will dump everything to the directory I<dump> so you can upload it to your
favourite web server without any perl, Mojolicious or contenticious magic.

=head2 Mount to an existing web app

With L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Mount> it's possible to mount whole Mojolicious web
apps into another. Since Contenticious I<is> a web app (via I<webapp.pl>),
you can mount Contenticious too. It works pretty straight-forward.
See this distribution's test script I<t/07_mount.t> for an example.

=head1 REPOSITORY WITH ISSUE TRACKER

The source code repository of Contenticious is on github:
L<https://github.com/memowe/contenticious>

There's also a simple issue tracker. Feel free to use it:
L<https://github.com/memowe/contenticious/issues>

=head1 AUTHOR AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) Mirko Westermeier, <mail@memowe.de>

Credits:

=over 4

=item * Joel Berger, L<https://github.com/jberger>

=item * John Hall, L<https://github.com/dancingfrog>

=item * Stephan Jauernick, L<https://github.com/stephan48>

=item * Keedi Kim, L<https://github.com/keedi>

=item * Roy Storey, L<https://github.com/kiwiroy>

=item * Joan Pujol Tarrés, L<https://github.com/mimosinnet>

=item * Maxim Vuets, L<https://github.com/mvuets>

=back

Thank you for your contributions!

Published under the MIT license.
